DOC-5263 static IPs for DB Console endpoints in Dedicated (#17411)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/network-authorization.md

If your cloud provider is AWS, you can use [AWS PrivateLink](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/) to securely connect your AWS application with your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster using a private endpoint. Like VPC Peering, a PrivateLink connection will prevent your traffic from being exposed to the public internet and reduce network latency. 

Refer to: [Managing AWS PrivateLink for a Dedicated Cluster](aws-privatelink.html).

## DB Console

The DB Console provides details about your cluster and database configuration, and helps you optimize cluster performance.

> For the functionality offered by the DB Console, refer to: [DB Console Overview](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/ui-overview.html)

Reviewer: Nit: Up to you, but perhaps to streamline the language a little here:
```suggestion
For information on functionality, refer to: [DB Console Overview](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/ui-overview.html).
```

To access the DB Console, you must first authorize your current IP address:

1. Visit your Dedicated cluster's IP allowlist page:

>     `https://cockroachlabs.io/cluster/{ cluster ID }/networking/allowlist`

Reviewer: Is it worth putting this in a code block so it is copyable? Maybe not.. 🤔 

```suggestion

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~
https://cockroachlabs.io/cluster/{ cluster ID }/networking/allowlist
~~~
```

1. Click **Add Network**.

> 1. Add your **Current Network**:

Reviewer: This is ending with a colon, is there something missing underneath, or is it a typo?

Author: yup, the below steps are nested. i fixed the indentation, thanks for the catch!

1. Give it a **Name** indicating its use for DB Console access from your current location.

> 1. Select **DB Console to monitor the cluster** under **Allow this network to access**.

Reviewer: Nit: (Not knowing what the screen in questions looks like)... would it be better for the user to read "Under **Allow this network to access" first, so that they are reading in the same order that they will see text in the GUI?
```suggestion
1.  Under **Allow this network to access**, select **DB Console to monitor the cluster**.
```

1. Click **Apply**.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

> When you have finished your work with the DB Console, be sure to remove your authorized network from the allowlist, by selecting **Delete** from the **Action** dropdown in your network's row.

Reviewer 2: Maybe instead of `be sure to`, we could say `you may want to`? It's really up to the customer whether they want to leave their IP allowlisted.

Up to you.

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

To get the URL for your cluster's DB Console:

1. Visit your Dedicated cluster's monitoring page:

>     `https://cockroachlabs.io/cluster/{ cluster ID }/monitoring`

Reviewer: Same question here as the other URL previously.

1. Click **Open DB Console**. Your browser will attempt to access the DB console in a new tab.

> To find the IP addresses for your cluster's DB Console, perform DNS lookup on the DB Console URL which opens in the browser. These IP addresses are static for the lifecycle of the cluster.

Reviewer: Complete nit
```suggestion
To find the IP addresses for your cluster's DB Console, perform DNS lookup on the DB Console URL that opens in the browser. These IP addresses are static for the lifecycle of the cluster.
```

> To find the IP addresses for your cluster's DB Console, perform DNS lookup on the DB Console URL which opens in the browser. These IP addresses are static for the lifecycle of the cluster.

Reviewer 2: Maybe the wording could be slightly changed to note that this step is optional? Such as `If you need to find the IP addresses...`

Up to you.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell

> dig examplary-dedicated-clusterberry-77tq.crdb.io | grep -A3 'ANSWER SECTION'

Reviewer 2: We should replace the `crdb.io` domain with `cockroachlabs.cloud`. `crdb.io` is our staging environment domain. Customers will always see `cockroachlabs.cloud`.

Author: thanks, good catch!

Refer to: [Managing AWS PrivateLink for a Dedicated Cluster](aws-privatelink.html).

## DB Console

The DB Console provides details about your cluster and database configuration, and helps you optimize cluster performance.

For the functionality offered by the DB Console, refer to: [DB Console Overview](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/ui-overview.html)

To access the DB Console, you must first authorize your current IP address:

1. Visit your Dedicated cluster's IP allowlist page:

    `https://cockroachlabs.io/cluster/{ cluster ID }/networking/allowlist`

1. Click **Add Network**.

1. Add your **Current Network**:

1. Give it a **Name** indicating its use for DB Console access from your current location.

1. Select **DB Console to monitor the cluster** under **Allow this network to access**.

1. Click **Apply**.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
When you have finished your work with the DB Console, be sure to remove your authorized network from the allowlist, by selecting **Delete** from the **Action** dropdown in your network's row.

> {{site.data.alerts.end}}

Author: thx!
